# Installation

## Minimum requirements to install Cloudron

* `Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial)` 64-bit server. Do not make any changes to vanilla ubuntu.
* At-least `1gb` RAM
* Minimum 20GB disk space
* Cloudron requires a domain to complete installation. Cloudron installs apps as subdomains
  of this domain.

**NOTE:** Cloudron does not support ARM (Raspberry Pi, Beagle board etc)

## Installing Cloudron

SSH into a `Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial)` 64-bit server and run the following commands:

```
wget https://cloudron.io/cloudron-setup
chmod +x cloudron-setup
./cloudron-setup --provider <azure|digitalocean|ec2|lightsail|linode|ovh|rosehosting|scaleway|vultr|generic>
```

The setup will take around 10-15 minutes. Then, navigate to `https://<IP>` and provide the domain name
of the Cloudron. It is entirely safe to use an _existing_ domain name for use by Cloudron. Cloudron
only requires the `my` subdomain to be available to work.

## Cloudron disk layout

These are the important locations on the server:

* `/var/lib/docker` - This contains docker images
* `/etc/nginx` - These contains the reverse proxy configuration. It is not meant to be edited manually.
* `/apps.swap` - This is a swap file that is dynamically resized by Cloudron. It will be no more than 4GB.

Most of the Cloudron code and data is in `/home/yellowtent` (For the curious, `yellowtent` was the code
name for Cloudron). The subdirectories are:

* `box` - This contains the Cloudron code
* `boxdata` - This contains data that is generated by the Cloudron code including certs
* `appsdata` - This contains the data generated by each app. Each directory here corresponds
  to the application id.
* `platformdata` - This contains 'runtime' data of the platform for mysql, postgres,
  mongodb, nginx. This also contains all user emails in the `mail/vmail` directory.

## Using overlay2 backend for Docker

Cloudron uses the `devicemapper` storage backend for Docker. This backend is very slow when used with non-SSD disks (HDD).
Changing the docker storage backend to `overlay2` greatly speeds things up. This can be done as follows:

* Cleanup docker
```
systemctl stop box
systemctl stop docker
rm -rf /var/lib/docker
```

* Change the backend setting
```
vi /etc/systemd/system/docker.service.d/cloudron.conf
# change --storage-driver=devicemapper to --storage-driver=overlay2
```

* Make Cloudron code re-pull all images. Edit `/home/yellowtent/platformdata/INFRA_VERSION` and change the minor version
in the "version" field. For example, if it is 48.3.0, change it to 48.2.0.

**NOTE:** Do not change the major version field since it will try to restore from a backup.

```
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl start docker
docker network create --subnet=172.18.0.0/16 cloudron
systemctl restart cloudron.target # this will download images all over, so give it some time
```

## Move the data directory to another location

Cloudron's data directory can be moved from `/home/yellowtent/appsdata` to a new location as follows:

```
    systemctl stop cloudron.target
    systemctl stop docker
    DATA_DIR="/var/data"  # this is the new location
    mkdir -p "${DATA_DIR}"
    mv /home/yellowtent/appsdata "${DATA_DIR}"
    ln -s "${DATA_DIR}/appsdata" /home/yellowtent/appsdata
    mv /home/yellowtent/platformdata "${DATA_DIR}"
    ln -s "${DATA_DIR}/platformdata" /home/yellowtent/platformdata
    systemctl start docker
    systemctl start cloudron.target
```

## Resizing the Cloudron server

For VPS providers that support it, you can simply resize the server (cpu/disk/memory) and Cloudron will
automatically adapt to the available resources after a server restart.

